FAQ-Master.md, before:

# OpenC2 Frequently Asked Questions

> NOTE: This markdown document exists to support group review and
> updates to the FAQ list. The questions and answers will be
> ported to the OpenC2.org website [FAQ
> page](https://openc2.org/faq.html) for general public
> visibility.

> Initial content created from https://openc2.org/faq.html by
> re-editing HTML content to GFM, 5 October 2022, plus some
> changes agreed to at that working meeting.

### What is OpenC2?

OpenC2 is a standardized language for machine-to-machine
communications for the command and control of technologies that
provide or support cyber defenses. The [OpenC2 Technical
Committee](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2)
is developing a suite of specifications that define the OpenC2
architecture, language, tailor its use to specific cyber-defense
functions, and specify how to convey OpenC2 messages using
various industry-standard transfer protocols.


### What is the difference between OpenC2 and OASIS?

[OpenC2](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2)
is an open source language, available for use and input across
the cyber-security community. Many open source languages and
technologies benefit from support of standards bodies, to help
guide and champion on-going use and evolution of the software or
technology. OpenC2 is a project under
[OASIS](https://www.oasis-open.org/). OASIS is the
**O**rganization for the **A**dvancement of **S**tructured
**I**nformation **S**tandards, a nonprofit international
consortium that develops open IT standards.

### How is the "suite" of OpenC2 Specifications organized?

> *NOTE: agreed to add this FAQ at the 5 October 2022 working meeting.*

As described in the [_OpenC2 Architecture
Specification_](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/oc2arch/v1.0/oc2arch-v1.0.html),
there are multiple types of OpenC2 specifications, meant to be
used in concert:

* The [*OpenC2 Architecture
  Specification*](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/oc2arch/v1.0/oc2arch-v1.0.html)
  describes the fundamental structures of OpenC2.

* The [*OpenC2 Language
  Specification*](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/oc2ls/v1.0/oc2ls-v1.0.html)
  provides the essential elements of the language, the structure
  for Commands and Responses, and the mechanisms for extending
  the OpenC2 language.

* [**OpenC2 Actuator
  Profiles**](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2#technical)
  specify the subset of the OpenC2 language relevant in the
  context of specific actuator functions (e.g., [packet
  filtering](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/oc2slpf/v1.0/oc2slpf-v1.0.html),
  honeypots).

* [**OpenC2 Transfer
  Specifications**](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2#technical)
  utilize existing protocols and standards (e.g.,
  [HTTPS](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/open-impl-https/v1.1/cs01/open-impl-https-v1.1-cs01.html),
  [MQTT](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/transf-mqtt/v1.0/transf-mqtt-v1.0.html))
  to implement OpenC2 message transfer in specific environments.


### What can OpenC2 do for me?

As cyber-defense technology vendors and providers adopt OpenC2,
OpenC2 can dramatically improve incident response to
cyber-threats and allow for enterprise wide interoperability for
cyber-security policy orchestration. Management and development
of cyber-defense responses is simplified and greater
collaboration and integration across a wide range of technologies
is enabled.


### How can I access OpenC2?

OASIS Specifications are open for all to use. The TC's [home page
at
OASIS](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2)
lists the [officially published
specifications](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2#technical).
This website includes a list of all [OpenC2 specifications
(published and under
development)](https://openc2.org/openc2-org.github.io/specifications.html),
and a collection of [open source software
tooling](https://openc2.org/openc2-org.github.io/opensource.html)
to add in implementing OpenC2.


### Do I have to be a member of OASIS to use OpenC2?

No, OASIS OpenC2 specifications are available to all. There are
no known intellectual property rights associated with OpenC2. See
[this page](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/openc2/ipr.php)
for additional information.

If you desire to participate in the OpenC2 Technical Committee
and draft future specifications, then OASIS membership would be
required.


### How long has this been around?

The OASIS OpenC2 TC was formed in 2017 and the first 3 OpenC2
Specifications were approved in 2019. The OpenC2 TC continues to
develop and improve the specifications in the suite.


### What similar efforts exist?

> _NOTE: at the 5 October 2022 working meeting, it was agreed
> this FAQ should be re-written as a "how relates to ...?"
> question. A new answer regarding "similar efforts" may be
> appropriate to retain this FAQ._

> TBD pending identification of other "similar efforts"


### Is there an OpenC2 API?

> _NOTE: this FAQ should probably also refer to transfer
> specifications beyond HTTPS. Also, ensure the HTTPS link is
> pointing to the current specification._

The OpenC2 Language Specification and Actuator Profiles taken
together define the request and response message content and
expected actions, and a Transfer Specification defines the
communications method. The exchange of OpenC2 command and
response messages using the [HTTPS Transfer
Specification](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/open-impl-https/v1.0/open-impl-https-v1.0.html)
can be considered a Remote Procedure Call (RPC)-style Web API.
OpenC2 does not have a Web API defined in terms of
Representational State Transfer (REST).


### What is the TC's process for creating work products?

The OpenC2 TC's process for creating and managing work products
is captured in the TC's [Documentation
Norms](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/master/Documentation-Norms.md).


### What is the meeting schedule?

OpenC2 meetings are routinely conducted Wednesdays at 11:00am
Eastern Time ("OpenC2 Time"). Our two meeting formats are:

 - TC Monthly Meeting: 3rd Wednesday of each month, in two
   sessions
 - Working Meetings: 1st, 2nd, and 4th Wednesdays of each month

The monthly TC meeting on the third Wednesday of each month
**counts towards voting rights** and is where the TC conducts
official business. The monthly meeting is held in two sessions to
facilitate member participation across timezones:

 - First session: 11:00 AM Eastern
 - Second session: 9:00 PM Eastern

The same agenda is used for both sessions, and the two sessions
are treated as a single meeting for purposes of attendance and
meeting minutes. Attendance is only required at one of the two
sessions in order to maintain voting rights.

The TC also holds working meetings on the 1st, 2nd, and 4th
Wednesdays at 11 AM Eastern Time. These meetings focus on current
work product development activities, technical issue resolution,
and related topics (see the [Working Meeting
Process](Working-Meeting-Process.md) document).

All meetings are nominally scheduled for 1 hour duration, and are
conducted using [Lucid Meetings](https://www.lucidmeetings.com/).

There is no meeting on the 5th Wednesday of the month, if any.


### How does OpenC2 relate to the OASIS [Collaborative Automated Course of Action Operations (CACAO) for Cyber Security TC](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=cacao)?

CACAO's goal is defining the standard for creating
machine-readable course of action playbooks for cybersecurity
operations. CACAO will have the ability of integrating different
languages for controlling components that are part of cyber
defense ecosystems, thus, OpenC2 is a candidate.

### How does OpenC2 relate to STIX [Course of Action (COA)](https://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/stix/v2.1/os/stix-v2.1-os.html#_a925mpw39txn)?

Structured Threat Information Expression (STIX™) is a language
and serialization format used to exchange cyber threat
intelligence (CTI). One of the STIX Domain Objects (SDOs), Course
of Action, has the ability to capture structured/automated
courses of action. OpenC2 can be utilized to populate STIX COA
SDOs for sharing automated courses of action for the purpose of
responding to cyber incidents in cyber-relevant time.

### How does OpenC2 relate to [MISP](https://www.misp-project.org/features.html)?

MISP originally stood for Malware Information Sharing Platform
but it has evolved to "Open Source Threat Intelligence Platform &
Open Standards For Threat Information Sharing" according to its
homepage.

### How does OpenC2 relate to [OpenDXL](https://www.opendxl.com/)?

OpenDXL is an initiative to create adaptive systems of
interconnected services that communicate and share information
for real-time, accurate security decisions and actions. As a
communications fabric, OpenDXL supports both point-to-point and
publish / subscribe communications models. OpenDXL could be used
as a communications fabric for OpenC2, but no transfer
specification has been formalized for it.

### How does OpenC2 relate to the [Open Cybersecurity Alliance](https://opencybersecurityalliance.org/)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*


### How does OpenC2 relate to the Open Cybersecurity Alliance's [OCA Ontology](https://github.com/opencybersecurityalliance/oca-ontology)?

The OCA Ontology (formerly known as the OCA OpenDXL Ontology) is
"an effort to bring semantic consistency to the full spectrum of
enterprise cyber security." Creating a common vernacular among
different vendors and cybersecurity sub-disciplines, and
establishing "formal, machine-readable representations" are means
to improve interoperability, which OpenC2 should be able to
leverage.



### How does OpenC2 relate to the [Open Connectivity Foundation](https://openconnectivity.org/)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*



### How does OpenC2 relate to the [Open Security Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL)](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/)?

OSCAL is a set of formats expressed in XML, JSON, and YAML. These
formats provide machine-readable representations of control
catalogs, control baselines, system security plans, and
assessment plans and results. OSCAL development is being managed
in a GitHub repository.

### How does OpenC2 relate to the [FIRST Information Exchange Policy (IEP)](https://www.first.org/iep/)?

IEP is a framework that Computer Security Incident Response Teams
(CSIRT), security communities, organizations, and vendors may
consider implementing to support their information sharing and
information exchange initiatives.

### How does OpenC2 relate to [Turbinia](https://github.com/google/turbinia)?

Turbinia is an open-source framework from Google for deploying,
managing, and running distributed forensic workloads.

### How does OpenC2 relate to [OpenDDS](https://opendds.org/)?

OpenDDS is an open source C++ implementation of the Object
Management Group (OMG) [Data Distribution Service
(DDS)](https://www.omg.org/spec/DDS/About-DDS/), a Data-Centric
Publish-Subscribe (DCPS) model for distributed application
communication and integration.



### How does OpenC2 relate to [Open Network Automation Platform (ONAP)](https://www.onap.org/)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*


### How does OpenC2 relate to [Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP)](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/security-content-automation-protocol)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*

### How does OpenC2 relate to Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*


### How does OpenC2 relate to [ROLIE](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8322/)?
ROLIE is the Resource-Oriented Lightweight Information Exchange,
defined in [RFC 8322](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8322/).
ROLIE defines a resource-oriented approach for security
automation information publication, discovery, and sharing. Using
this approach, producers may publish, share, and exchange
representations of software descriptors, security incidents,
attack indicators, software vulnerabilities, configuration
checklists, and other security automation information as
web-addressable resources. Furthermore, consumers and other
stakeholders may access and search this security information as
needed, establishing a rapid and on-demand information exchange
network for restricted internal use or public access
repositories. The specification extends the Atom Publishing
Protocol and Atom Syndication Format to transport and share
security automation resource representations.


### How does OpenC2 relate to [Manufacturer Usage Descriptions (MUD)](https://developer.cisco.com/docs/mud/#!what-is-mud)?

Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) is an embedded software
standard defined by the IETF that allows IoT Device makers to
advertise device specifications, including the intended
communication patterns for their device when it connects to the
network. The network can then use this intent to author a
context-specific access policy, so the device functions only
within those parameters. In this manner, MUD becomes the
authoritative identifier and enforcer of policy for devices on
the network. MUD is defined in [RFC
8520](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8520).

Commit message:

note about no link in question portion

FAQ-Master.md, after:

# OpenC2 Frequently Asked Questions

> NOTE: This markdown document exists to support group review and
> updates to the FAQ list. The questions and answers will be
> ported to the OpenC2.org website [FAQ
> page](https://openc2.org/faq.html) for general public
> visibility.

> IMPORTANT:  ***Do not*** embed links the question portion of
> the FAQ, as this breaks the formatting on the OpenC2.org
> website. Only use links in the answer body of the FAQ.

### What is OpenC2?

OpenC2 is a standardized language for machine-to-machine
communications for the command and control of technologies that
provide or support cyber defenses. The [OpenC2 Technical
Committee](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2)
is developing a suite of specifications that define the OpenC2
architecture, language, tailor its use to specific cyber-defense
functions, and specify how to convey OpenC2 messages using
various industry-standard transfer protocols.


### What is the difference between OpenC2 and OASIS?

[OpenC2](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2)
is an open source language, available for use and input across
the cyber-security community. Many open source languages and
technologies benefit from support of standards bodies, to help
guide and champion on-going use and evolution of the software or
technology. OpenC2 is a project under
[OASIS](https://www.oasis-open.org/). OASIS is the
**O**rganization for the **A**dvancement of **S**tructured
**I**nformation **S**tandards, a nonprofit international
consortium that develops open IT standards.

### How is the "suite" of OpenC2 Specifications organized?

> *NOTE: agreed to add this FAQ at the 5 October 2022 working meeting.*

As described in the [_OpenC2 Architecture
Specification_](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/oc2arch/v1.0/oc2arch-v1.0.html),
there are multiple types of OpenC2 specifications, meant to be
used in concert:

* The [*OpenC2 Architecture
  Specification*](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/oc2arch/v1.0/oc2arch-v1.0.html)
  describes the fundamental structures of OpenC2.

* The [*OpenC2 Language
  Specification*](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/oc2ls/v1.0/oc2ls-v1.0.html)
  provides the essential elements of the language, the structure
  for Commands and Responses, and the mechanisms for extending
  the OpenC2 language.

* [**OpenC2 Actuator
  Profiles**](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2#technical)
  specify the subset of the OpenC2 language relevant in the
  context of specific actuator functions (e.g., [packet
  filtering](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/oc2slpf/v1.0/oc2slpf-v1.0.html),
  honeypots).

* [**OpenC2 Transfer
  Specifications**](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2#technical)
  utilize existing protocols and standards (e.g.,
  [HTTPS](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/open-impl-https/v1.1/cs01/open-impl-https-v1.1-cs01.html),
  [MQTT](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/transf-mqtt/v1.0/transf-mqtt-v1.0.html))
  to implement OpenC2 message transfer in specific environments.


### What can OpenC2 do for me?

As cyber-defense technology vendors and providers adopt OpenC2,
OpenC2 can dramatically improve incident response to
cyber-threats and allow for enterprise wide interoperability for
cyber-security policy orchestration. Management and development
of cyber-defense responses is simplified and greater
collaboration and integration across a wide range of technologies
is enabled.


### How can I access OpenC2?

OASIS Specifications are open for all to use. The TC's [home page
at
OASIS](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2)
lists the [officially published
specifications](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2#technical).
This website includes a list of all [OpenC2 specifications
(published and under
development)](https://openc2.org/openc2-org.github.io/specifications.html),
and a collection of [open source software
tooling](https://openc2.org/openc2-org.github.io/opensource.html)
to add in implementing OpenC2.


### Do I have to be a member of OASIS to use OpenC2?

No, OASIS OpenC2 specifications are available to all. There are
no known intellectual property rights associated with OpenC2. See
[this page](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/openc2/ipr.php)
for additional information.

If you desire to participate in the OpenC2 Technical Committee
and draft future specifications, then OASIS membership would be
required.


### How long has this been around?

The OASIS OpenC2 TC was formed in 2017 and the first 3 OpenC2
Specifications were approved in 2019. The OpenC2 TC continues to
develop and improve the specifications in the suite.


### What similar efforts exist?

> _NOTE: at the 5 October 2022 working meeting, it was agreed
> this FAQ should be re-written as a "how relates to ...?"
> question. A new answer regarding "similar efforts" may be
> appropriate to retain this FAQ._

> TBD pending identification of other "similar efforts"


### Is there an OpenC2 API?

> _NOTE: this FAQ should probably also refer to transfer
> specifications beyond HTTPS. Also, ensure the HTTPS link is
> pointing to the current specification._

The OpenC2 Language Specification and Actuator Profiles taken
together define the request and response message content and
expected actions, and a Transfer Specification defines the
communications method. The exchange of OpenC2 command and
response messages using the [HTTPS Transfer
Specification](https://docs.oasis-open.org/openc2/open-impl-https/v1.0/open-impl-https-v1.0.html)
can be considered a Remote Procedure Call (RPC)-style Web API.
OpenC2 does not have a Web API defined in terms of
Representational State Transfer (REST).


### What is the TC's process for creating work products?

The OpenC2 TC's process for creating and managing work products
is captured in the TC's [Documentation
Norms](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/master/Documentation-Norms.md).


### What is the meeting schedule?

OpenC2 meetings are routinely conducted Wednesdays at 11:00am
Eastern Time ("OpenC2 Time"). Our two meeting formats are:

 - TC Monthly Meeting: 3rd Wednesday of each month, in two
   sessions
 - Working Meetings: 1st, 2nd, and 4th Wednesdays of each month

The monthly TC meeting on the third Wednesday of each month
**counts towards voting rights** and is where the TC conducts
official business. The monthly meeting is held in two sessions to
facilitate member participation across timezones:

 - First session: 11:00 AM Eastern
 - Second session: 9:00 PM Eastern

The same agenda is used for both sessions, and the two sessions
are treated as a single meeting for purposes of attendance and
meeting minutes. Attendance is only required at one of the two
sessions in order to maintain voting rights.

The TC also holds working meetings on the 1st, 2nd, and 4th
Wednesdays at 11 AM Eastern Time. These meetings focus on current
work product development activities, technical issue resolution,
and related topics (see the [Working Meeting
Process](Working-Meeting-Process.md) document).

All meetings are nominally scheduled for 1 hour duration, and are
conducted using [Lucid Meetings](https://www.lucidmeetings.com/).

There is no meeting on the 5th Wednesday of the month, if any.


### How does OpenC2 relate to the OASIS [Collaborative Automated Course of Action Operations (CACAO) for Cyber Security TC](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=cacao)?

CACAO's goal is defining the standard for creating
machine-readable course of action playbooks for cybersecurity
operations. CACAO will have the ability of integrating different
languages for controlling components that are part of cyber
defense ecosystems, thus, OpenC2 is a candidate.

### How does OpenC2 relate to STIX [Course of Action (COA)](https://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/stix/v2.1/os/stix-v2.1-os.html#_a925mpw39txn)?

Structured Threat Information Expression (STIX™) is a language
and serialization format used to exchange cyber threat
intelligence (CTI). One of the STIX Domain Objects (SDOs), Course
of Action, has the ability to capture structured/automated
courses of action. OpenC2 can be utilized to populate STIX COA
SDOs for sharing automated courses of action for the purpose of
responding to cyber incidents in cyber-relevant time.

### How does OpenC2 relate to [MISP](https://www.misp-project.org/features.html)?

MISP originally stood for Malware Information Sharing Platform
but it has evolved to "Open Source Threat Intelligence Platform &
Open Standards For Threat Information Sharing" according to its
homepage.

### How does OpenC2 relate to [OpenDXL](https://www.opendxl.com/)?

OpenDXL is an initiative to create adaptive systems of
interconnected services that communicate and share information
for real-time, accurate security decisions and actions. As a
communications fabric, OpenDXL supports both point-to-point and
publish / subscribe communications models. OpenDXL could be used
as a communications fabric for OpenC2, but no transfer
specification has been formalized for it.

### How does OpenC2 relate to the [Open Cybersecurity Alliance](https://opencybersecurityalliance.org/)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*


### How does OpenC2 relate to the Open Cybersecurity Alliance's [OCA Ontology](https://github.com/opencybersecurityalliance/oca-ontology)?

The OCA Ontology (formerly known as the OCA OpenDXL Ontology) is
"an effort to bring semantic consistency to the full spectrum of
enterprise cyber security." Creating a common vernacular among
different vendors and cybersecurity sub-disciplines, and
establishing "formal, machine-readable representations" are means
to improve interoperability, which OpenC2 should be able to
leverage.



### How does OpenC2 relate to the [Open Connectivity Foundation](https://openconnectivity.org/)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*



### How does OpenC2 relate to the [Open Security Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL)](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/)?

OSCAL is a set of formats expressed in XML, JSON, and YAML. These
formats provide machine-readable representations of control
catalogs, control baselines, system security plans, and
assessment plans and results. OSCAL development is being managed
in a GitHub repository.

### How does OpenC2 relate to the [FIRST Information Exchange Policy (IEP)](https://www.first.org/iep/)?

IEP is a framework that Computer Security Incident Response Teams
(CSIRT), security communities, organizations, and vendors may
consider implementing to support their information sharing and
information exchange initiatives.

### How does OpenC2 relate to [Turbinia](https://github.com/google/turbinia)?

Turbinia is an open-source framework from Google for deploying,
managing, and running distributed forensic workloads.

### How does OpenC2 relate to [OpenDDS](https://opendds.org/)?

OpenDDS is an open source C++ implementation of the Object
Management Group (OMG) [Data Distribution Service
(DDS)](https://www.omg.org/spec/DDS/About-DDS/), a Data-Centric
Publish-Subscribe (DCPS) model for distributed application
communication and integration.



### How does OpenC2 relate to [Open Network Automation Platform (ONAP)](https://www.onap.org/)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*


### How does OpenC2 relate to [Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP)](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/security-content-automation-protocol)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*

### How does OpenC2 relate to Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN)?

\* \* \* To Be Supplied \* \* \*


### How does OpenC2 relate to [ROLIE](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8322/)?
ROLIE is the Resource-Oriented Lightweight Information Exchange,
defined in [RFC 8322](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8322/).
ROLIE defines a resource-oriented approach for security
automation information publication, discovery, and sharing. Using
this approach, producers may publish, share, and exchange
representations of software descriptors, security incidents,
attack indicators, software vulnerabilities, configuration
checklists, and other security automation information as
web-addressable resources. Furthermore, consumers and other
stakeholders may access and search this security information as
needed, establishing a rapid and on-demand information exchange
network for restricted internal use or public access
repositories. The specification extends the Atom Publishing
Protocol and Atom Syndication Format to transport and share
security automation resource representations.


### How does OpenC2 relate to [Manufacturer Usage Descriptions (MUD)](https://developer.cisco.com/docs/mud/#!what-is-mud)?

Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) is an embedded software
standard defined by the IETF that allows IoT Device makers to
advertise device specifications, including the intended
communication patterns for their device when it connects to the
network. The network can then use this intent to author a
context-specific access policy, so the device functions only
within those parameters. In this manner, MUD becomes the
authoritative identifier and enforcer of policy for devices on
the network. MUD is defined in [RFC
8520](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8520).
