Meeting-Scheduling.md, before:

# Secretary's Notes on Meeting Scheduling

The OASIS Kavi system is the system of record for OASIS TC
operations. The OpenC2 TC uses [Lucid
Meetings](https://meet.lucidmeetings.com/) to conduct TC and SC
meetings. The following notes capture some useful details
regarding the meeting scheduling process. The Lucid Meetings
[Fundamentals: Start
Here](http://support.lucidmeetings.com/support/solutions/folders/16000049332)
page provides an introduction to how things are organized in
Lucid.

* This arrangement requires TC and working meetings to be
  scheduled in both Kavi & Lucid
  * The TC has been scheduling recurring meeting series in
    6-month blocks
  * Scheduling meeting series generates a flurry of calendar
    invitation emails. Consider sending a "warning order" email
    to the TC mail list so that members aren't surprised.
  * Consider creating a matrix so you can check off each meeting
    series as it's scheduled (example at the end of this note) to
    keep track.
  * Working meetings (which occur three times per month) require
    scheduling a series for each session (e.g., 1st Wednesday,
    2nd Wednesday, 4th Wednesday are scheduled as three separate
    series)
  * The monthly TC meeting's morning and evening sessions
    likewise require scheduling a series for each session
* The person who schedules a meeting in Lucid is automatically a
  facilitator, others need to have their role changed to
  facilitator.
  * TC co-chairs and the secretary are facilitators for monthly
    TC meetings.
  * TC co-chairs, and the secretary are facilitators for all
    working meetings. Work product editors will be specified as
    presenters for their work items in the working meeting
    agendas
* Use the _Monthly / Same Day of Week_ repeat schedule for
  meetings (to get, e.g., first Tuesday of month)
* Uncheck the box to receive emails for RSVPs in Lucid if you
  don't want to get flooded.
* Only Facilitators and Participants can raise hands in Lucid, so
  set people's roles accordingly. Our convention has been:
  * TC meetings: TC co-chairs and secreatry are facilitators
  * Working meetings: TC co-chairs and secreatry are
    facilitators; work product editors are made presenters for
    their portions of the agenda so they can edit them.  
    * NOTE: Lucid only allows one presenter per agenda portion,
      so if there are multiple editors for a work product one
      should be identified as the presenter for any particular
      meeting.
  * Lucid Meetings roles are explained
    [here](http://support.lucidmeetings.com/support/solutions/articles/16000013446-roles-and-permissions-who-can-do-what-in-lucid)
* Need to use "Edit series attendees" in Lucid to change attendee
  information for an entire meeting series if you later want to
  add people or adjust roles
  * Click on the meeting in your Dashboard / Calendar
  * Click on the Attendees tab
  * Select "(Edit series attendees)" in the space above the table
    of attendees
* The entire TC membership is invited to all TC and working
  meetings


**For efficient scheduling in Lucid:**
1. Go into the OpenC2 "room"
1. Pick the agenda template for the meeting being scheduled
1. Schedule the meeting (set date, time, repeats, end criteria
   for repeats; repeats should use the monthly / day of week
   setting)
1. Add people (sort the room members by role, add all Members /
   Observers; guests are only invited on a one-off basis)
1. Adjust roles for facilitators
1. Send invite email

We're a big "room" by Lucid standards, some actions take a little
time for processing. Some processing happens in the background
(e.g., invitation email generation and sending), but not all
(e.g., adding people to a meeting series). Occasionally you may
get a "504 Gateway Time-out" error on the latter; if that happens
backtrack to the meeting page
(`meet.lucidmeetings.com/meeting/xxxxxx`) to continue. Confirm
that the people have been added (they usually have). If you run
into issues, the Secretary has an account with the Lucid Meetings
support system, and has been very pleased with the quality of
their support. 

### Example Meeting Scheduling Matrix
> NOTE: requires update for working meetings in place of SC
> meetings
> 
![Example Scheduling Grid](/images/scheduling-grid.jpg)

Commit message:

add note about updating Lucid Templates

Meeting-Scheduling.md, after:

# Secretary's Notes on Meeting Scheduling

The OASIS Kavi system is the system of record for OASIS TC
operations. The OpenC2 TC uses [Lucid
Meetings](https://meet.lucidmeetings.com/) to conduct TC and SC
meetings. The following notes capture some useful details
regarding the meeting scheduling process. The Lucid Meetings
[Fundamentals: Start
Here](http://support.lucidmeetings.com/support/solutions/folders/16000049332)
page provides an introduction to how things are organized in
Lucid.

* This arrangement requires TC and working meetings to be
  scheduled in both Kavi & Lucid
  * The TC has been scheduling recurring meeting series in
    6-month blocks
  * Scheduling meeting series generates a flurry of calendar
    invitation emails. Consider sending a "warning order" email
    to the TC mail list so that members aren't surprised.
  * Consider creating a matrix so you can check off each meeting
    series as it's scheduled (example at the end of this note) to
    keep track.
  * Working meetings (which occur three times per month) require
    scheduling a series for each session (e.g., 1st Wednesday,
    2nd Wednesday, 4th Wednesday are scheduled as three separate
    series)
  * The monthly TC meeting's morning and evening sessions
    likewise require scheduling a series for each session
* The person who schedules a meeting in Lucid is automatically a
  facilitator, others need to have their role changed to
  facilitator.
  * TC co-chairs and the secretary are facilitators for monthly
    TC meetings.
  * TC co-chairs, and the secretary are facilitators for all
    working meetings. Work product editors will be specified as
    presenters for their work items in the working meeting
    agendas
* Use the _Monthly / Same Day of Week_ repeat schedule for
  meetings (to get, e.g., second Wednesday of month)
* Uncheck the box to receive emails for RSVPs in Lucid if you
  don't want to get flooded.
* Only Facilitators and Participants can raise hands in Lucid, so
  set people's roles accordingly. Our convention has been:
  * TC meetings: TC co-chairs and secreatry are facilitators
  * Working meetings: TC co-chairs and secreatry are
    facilitators; work product editors are made presenters for
    their portions of the agenda so they can edit them.  
    * NOTE: Lucid only allows one presenter per agenda portion,
      so if there are multiple editors for a work product one
      should be identified as the presenter for any particular
      meeting.
  * Lucid Meetings roles are explained
    [here](http://support.lucidmeetings.com/support/solutions/articles/16000013446-roles-and-permissions-who-can-do-what-in-lucid)
* Need to use "Edit series attendees" in Lucid to change attendee
  information for an entire meeting series if you later want to
  add people or adjust roles
  * Click on the meeting in your Dashboard / Calendar
  * Click on the Attendees tab
  * Select "(Edit series attendees)" in the space above the table
    of attendees
* The entire TC membership is invited to all TC and working
  meetings


**For efficient scheduling in Lucid:**
1. Go into the OpenC2 "room"
1. Pick the agenda template for the meeting being scheduled;<br>
   **NOTE:** it's worthwhile reviewing and updating the agenda
   template before scheduling a block of meetings to make sure
   the content is current as of scheduling time, and to ensure
   all TC members in the "room" are added to the _template_ as
   attendees.
1. Schedule the meeting (set date, time, repeats, end criteria
   for repeats; repeats should use the monthly / day of week
   setting)
1. Add people (sort the room members by role, add all Members /
   Observers; guests are only invited on a one-off basis)
1. Adjust roles for facilitators
1. Send invite email

We're a big "room" by Lucid standards, some actions take a little
time for processing. Some processing happens in the background
(e.g., invitation email generation and sending), but not all
(e.g., adding people to a meeting series). Occasionally you may
get a "504 Gateway Time-out" error on the latter; if that happens
backtrack to the meeting page
(`meet.lucidmeetings.com/meeting/xxxxxx`) to continue. Confirm
that the people have been added (they usually have). If you run
into issues, the Secretary has an account with the Lucid Meetings
support system, and has been very pleased with the quality of
their support. 

### Example Meeting Scheduling Matrix
> NOTE: requires update for working meetings in place of SC
> meetings
> 
![Example Scheduling Grid](/images/scheduling-grid.jpg)
