README.md, before:

# README

![TC Ops Header Graphic](images/TC_Ops_Header.png)

## :left_speech_bubble: Description :left_speech_bubble:

This repository is for documentation associated with the OASIS [OpenC2
TC's](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2)
operations and information sharing such as FAQs, lists of links
to related work, and norms for developing and approving TC work
products. Given the intent of the repo, both TC co-chairs and the
secretary are maintainers.

## :world_map:  What's Here? :world_map:

This repository includes the following information:

* [General-Member-Info.md](General-Member-Info.md)
  -- An overview of how the OpenC2 TC conducts its operations;
  useful for both new and existing members
* [An OpenC2 Companion](oc2-companion.md) -- a friendly, informal
  guide to all of the pieces of OpenC2 and how you put them
  together to do something useful (**a really good place to start**)
* [Documentation-Norms.md](Documentation-Norms.md)
  -- An information document for work product editors, including
  the TC's use of markdown and GitHub for developing and managing
  those work products. Also includes information about choosing
  work products names and shorthands, branch management strategy
  for work product GitHub repos, and other helpful info.
* [Work-Product-List.md](Work-Product-List.md) -- a list of the TC's on-going work products with status, editor names, links to repositories and recent versions
* [Working-Meeting-Process.md](Working-Meeting-Process.md) -- a description of the new (as of March 2021) process for planning and conducting working meetings to advance the development of work products in the OpenC2 TC
* [Meeting-Scheduling.md](Meeting-Scheduling.md)
  -- notes about the meeting scheduling process, for reference by
  co-chairs and the TC secretary
* [Document-Template-2020.md](Document-Template-2020.md) -- a highly condensed version of the new work product outline adopted in late 2020 by OASIS. New work items should use this format (it will be reflected in the starter document provided by OASIS). Existing work items can be reformatted to use this outline; the TC's work product editors consider it an improvement.
* [FAQ.md](FAQ.md)
  -- An OpenC2 Frequently Asked Questions list
* [Other-OpenC2-Work.md](Other-OpenC2-Work.md)
  -- a listing of OpenC2 implementation efforts known to the TC
  outside of those maintained in [open repositories sponsored by
  the
  TC](https://github.com/oasis-open?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=openc2-&type=&language=)
* [ITU Process For OpenC2
  Adoption](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/wiki/ItuProcessForOpenC2Adoption)
  -- a [wiki
  page](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/wiki) with
  information about the International Telecommunications Union
  (ITU) and efforts to encourage its adoption of OpenC2 as an ITU
  Recommendation.

## ![oasis-avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47402065?s=24&v=4) OASIS-Controlled Repository ![oasis-avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47402065?s=24&v=4)

Members of the [OASIS Open Command and Control (OpenC2)
TC](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/openc2/) create and
manage technical content in this TC GitHub repository
(https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/) as part of the TC's
chartered work (the program of work and deliverables described in
its
[charter](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/openc2/charter.php).

OASIS TC GitHub repositories, as described in [GitHub
Repositories for OASIS TC Members' Chartered
Work](https://www.oasis-open.org/resources/tcadmin/github-repositories-for-oasis-tc-members-chartered-work),
are governed by the OASIS [TC
Process](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/tc-process),
[IPR Policy](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/ipr),
and other policies. While they make use of public GitHub
repositories, these repositories are distinct from [OASIS Open
Repositories](https://www.oasis-open.org/resources/open-repositories),
which are used for development of open source
[licensed](https://www.oasis-open.org/resources/open-repositories/licenses)
content.


## :writing_hand: Contributions :writing_hand:

As stated in this repository's
[CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
file, contributors to this repository must be Members of the
OASIS OpenC2 TC for any substantive contributions or change
requests. Anyone wishing to contribute to this GitHub project and
[participate](https://www.oasis-open.org/join/participation-instructions)
in the TC's technical activity is invited to join as an OASIS TC
Member. Public feedback is also accepted, subject to the terms of
the [OASIS Feedback
License](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/ipr#appendixa).


## :scroll: Licensing :scroll:

Please see the
[LICENSE](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
file for description of the license terms and OASIS policies
applicable to the TC's work in this GitHub project. Content in
this repository is intended to be part of the OpenC2 TC's
permanent record of activity, visible and freely available for
all to use, subject to applicable OASIS policies, as presented in
the repository
[LICENSE](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/main/LICENSE.md).



## :envelope_with_arrow: Contact :envelope_with_arrow:

Please send questions or comments about [OASIS TC GitHub
repositories](https://www.oasis-open.org/resources/tcadmin/github-repositories-for-oasis-tc-members-chartered-work)
to the [OASIS TC Administrator](mailto:tc-admin@oasis-open.org).
For questions about content in this repository, please contact
the TC Co-Chairs or Secretary as listed on the the OpenC2 TC's
[home page](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/openc2/).

Commit message:

updates to README and gen member info

README.md, after:

# README

![TC Ops Header Graphic](images/TC_Ops_Header.png)

## :left_speech_bubble: Description :left_speech_bubble:

This repository is for documentation associated with the OASIS [OpenC2
TC's](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=openc2)
operations and information sharing such as FAQs, lists of links
to related work, and norms for developing and approving TC work
products. Given the intent of the repo, both TC co-chairs and the
secretary are maintainers.

## :world_map:  What's Here? :world_map:

This repository includes the following information:

* [General-Member-Info.md](General-Member-Info.md)
  -- An overview of how the OpenC2 TC conducts its operations;
  useful for both new and existing members
* [An OpenC2 Companion](oc2-companion.md) -- a friendly, informal
  guide to all of the pieces of OpenC2 and how you put them
  together to do something useful (**a really good place to start**)
* [Documentation-Norms.md](Documentation-Norms.md)
  -- An information document for work product editors, including
  the TC's use of markdown and GitHub for developing and managing
  those work products. Also includes information about choosing
  work products names and shorthands, branch management strategy
  for work product GitHub repos, and other helpful info.
* [Work-Product-List.md](Work-Product-List.md) -- a list of the TC's on-going work products with status, editor names, links to repositories and recent versions
* [Working-Meeting-Process.md](Working-Meeting-Process.md) -- a description of the new (as of March 2021) process for planning and conducting working meetings to advance the development of work products in the OpenC2 TC
* [Meeting-Scheduling.md](Meeting-Scheduling.md)
  -- notes about the meeting scheduling process, for reference by
  co-chairs and the TC secretary
* [Document-Template-2020.md](Document-Template-2020.md) -- a highly condensed version of the new work product outline adopted in late 2020 by OASIS. New work items should use this format (it will be reflected in the starter document provided by OASIS). Existing work items can be reformatted to use this outline; the TC's work product editors consider it an improvement.
* [FAQ-Master.md](FAQ-Master.md) -- A markdown version of the
  OpenC2 Frequently Asked Questions list. Having the list here in
  markdown simplifies editing and updating FAQs. The TC Secretary
  then ports updates to the website's [FAQ
  page](https://openc2.org/faq.html) following a Markdown-to-HTML
  conversion.
* [Other-OpenC2-Work.md](Other-OpenC2-Work.md)
  -- a listing of OpenC2 implementation efforts known to the TC
  outside of those maintained in [open repositories sponsored by
  the
  TC](https://github.com/oasis-open?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=openc2-&type=&language=)
* [ITU Process For OpenC2
  Adoption](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/wiki/ItuProcessForOpenC2Adoption)
  -- a [wiki
  page](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/wiki) with
  information about the International Telecommunications Union
  (ITU) and efforts to encourage its adoption of OpenC2 as an ITU
  Recommendation.

## ![oasis-avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47402065?s=24&v=4) OASIS-Controlled Repository ![oasis-avatar](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47402065?s=24&v=4)

Members of the [OASIS Open Command and Control (OpenC2)
TC](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/openc2/) create and
manage technical content in this TC GitHub repository
(https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/) as part of the TC's
chartered work (the program of work and deliverables described in
its
[charter](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/openc2/charter.php).

OASIS TC GitHub repositories, as described in [GitHub
Repositories for OASIS TC Members' Chartered
Work](https://www.oasis-open.org/resources/tcadmin/github-repositories-for-oasis-tc-members-chartered-work),
are governed by the OASIS [TC
Process](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/tc-process),
[IPR Policy](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/ipr),
and other policies. While they make use of public GitHub
repositories, these repositories are distinct from [OASIS Open
Repositories](https://www.oasis-open.org/resources/open-repositories),
which are used for development of open source
[licensed](https://www.oasis-open.org/resources/open-repositories/licenses)
content.


## :writing_hand: Contributions :writing_hand:

As stated in this repository's
[CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
file, contributors to this repository must be Members of the
OASIS OpenC2 TC for any substantive contributions or change
requests. Anyone wishing to contribute to this GitHub project and
[participate](https://www.oasis-open.org/join/participation-instructions)
in the TC's technical activity is invited to join as an OASIS TC
Member. Public feedback is also accepted, subject to the terms of
the [OASIS Feedback
License](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/ipr#appendixa).


## :scroll: Licensing :scroll:

Please see the
[LICENSE](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
file for description of the license terms and OASIS policies
applicable to the TC's work in this GitHub project. Content in
this repository is intended to be part of the OpenC2 TC's
permanent record of activity, visible and freely available for
all to use, subject to applicable OASIS policies, as presented in
the repository
[LICENSE](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/main/LICENSE.md).



## :envelope_with_arrow: Contact :envelope_with_arrow:

Please send questions or comments about [OASIS TC GitHub
repositories](https://www.oasis-open.org/resources/tcadmin/github-repositories-for-oasis-tc-members-chartered-work)
to the [OASIS TC Administrator](mailto:tc-admin@oasis-open.org).
For questions about content in this repository, please contact
the TC Co-Chairs or Secretary as listed on the the OpenC2 TC's
[home page](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/openc2/).
